as you come back to the operator side of
the vehicle tell the operator you are
going to do a walk-around of the vehicle
and would like for the service brake to
be applied so air leaks can be detected
start with the driver's side front wheel
listening for obvious air leaks look at
the fuel tank steps and mounting listen
for air leaks and proceed down the side
of the trailer to trailer axles check
each wheel for lug nuts brake drum nuts
and rim cracks check the tailgate
closing mechanism and proceed down the
passenger side of the truck again
checking the rear tandem tires for tread
depth 132nd
knotts cuts and checking wheels for lug
nuts axle nuts and rim cracks continue
to listen for air leaks as you approach
the cab check to make sure your covers
are intact check your heat shields and
exhaust system look at the cab mounts
and steps as you climb up to check the
glad hands on the truck check the Red
emergency airline then check the blue
service airline also look at some
accessories the tailgate control and
axle control look at the light
connection and check the ladder that
they're secure check the pogo stick
making sure all the lines are free from
touching any of the drivetrain axles or
wheels as you climb down check the
windows and handholds as you move down
the side of the truck check the tank
door the mirrors and windows
checking the air tanks making sure
they're securely mounted
check the passenger front wheel for tire
tread depth to 30 seconds of an inch
check the brake drum bolts and the
wedges of the wheel bolts and rims look
at the seating ring that there are no
bends or fractures
Tony just need or formula we're going to
check your slow air pressure warning now
go back up to the operators compartment
and ask the operator to turn on the key
and apply the service brake until the
low air warning alarm is activated this
should occur at approximately 55 psi and
below while one half of the governor cut
out pressure whichever is less heavy
operator continue to apply the service
brake until the maxi sets up on both
tractor and trailer many newer trucks
may activate at a higher pressure
Tony I want to check the jackets break
on the truck
count em we'll have you set your trailer
brakes and then I'm going to go back and
see if we have any air that set up your
tractor breath just the trailer brakes
on I'm checking the tractor protection
bound believe your trailer set up and
your tractors off right right I'll be
right back with you
very good ask the operator to start the
truck and build the air pressure back up
once the air is built up ask the
operator to apply the service brake then
remove the chocks ask the operator to
set the trailer brake and gently move
the tractor back and forth so you can
observe the play in the 5th wheel half
inch maximum stay clear of the truck
while checking for movement
when inspecting a tandem truck the
inspection procedures are the same as
that of a tractor-trailer the only
exception would be raising the bed in
order to look at the rails bed bracing
and the point where the bed attaches to
the truck if the inspection is cleaned
without any problems then we'll let the
operator continue to work however if we
find problems we'll ask the operator to
step down and will point out each
specific problem we found with the truck
I'm going to issue two citations on your
truck one for the fire extinguisher and
the other one on your front passenger
side tandem wheel you have a grease leak
inside the wheel there's actually grease
on the shoe itself and I'll need you to
you know clean that out I'm going to
issue a citation but I'm gonna let you
run however because you're running on
very small grades it's mostly flat
traffic in and out loading and i'll give
you until tomorrow to fix things that
okay already have any questions about
the citations i'm gonna issue you hold
up well i'll let you continue your work
and I'll fix your citations up and then
after you load and head out i'll give
them to you on your way out i'll be out
tomorrow morning to check your trucks if
we've got everything taken care of i'll
ask you to get in and fire up let me get
my chalks out of it once i get the
chalks out of the truck then you're free
to go look thank you very much there
buddy have a good day okay a break
function tests should be done each shift
as part of your pre-operational check
the truck should be empty while being
tested on an incline
once your truck is loaded do a brake
function test on level ground before
doing it on an incline this best
practice card has a pre operation
inspection checklist for your use
best practice cards and other safety
related materials are available at the
national mine Health and Safety Academy
or visit our website at WWF a govt
you